---
layout: post
number: "002"
title:  Location, location, location
date:   2017-03-18 02:09:39 +0300
categories:
tags:
published: true
excerpt: From our podcast interview with Dr. ____, here are 7 distilled points when considering your practice location.
---

<!--excerpt-->
## Top 7 points

### 1. Live where you want to live.

  * It doesn’t matter how great your practice is if you don’t want to live in that city.

### 2. Begin with the end in mind

  * Base your lease on how long you see yourself in this space.
  * Leases are typically 3-5 years long. Go on the shorter end if you think you may grow quickly.

### 3. Think about your workflow and model of care

  * How many nurses / MAs / mid levels / other providers will you have?
  * Is there privacy in the reception area?
  * How many equipment rooms will you need?
  * Do you need a personal office to complete charts in, or can you use an exam room?

### 4. Consider how difficult it will be to shift a practice to your new model

  * When taking over another practice, you may inherit staff that are used to a certain style of workflow, which can be challenging to change.

### 5. Put yourself in your patient’s shoes

  * Make sure it is easy to find your office
  * If you are in a medical office building (MOB), try to be Suite 100
  * If you are in a hospital / larger building, make sure your sick / nervous / disabled patients can find you
  * Ensure you have great access to your office
  * If possible be on the first floor for patients who may have difficulty going up stairs or elevators
  * Parking lots are near the building (and not in a difficult to navigate parking garage)
  * Besides patient satisfaction, large garages can often lead to patients being late for their appointment

### 6. Don’t forget the details that make for a great patient experience

  * Your building has overhangs in case it rains
  * Bathrooms and drinking fountains are easily accessible
  * Doors and seats are wide enough for patients

### 7. Think about your competition, but don’t worry too much. Here’s why and some additional tips

  * In general, there is a shortage of physicians, especially primary care.
  * If you are in a growing area, there will be demand regardless.
  * It’s like restaurants → people go to an area known to have lots of restaurants (adds legitimacy to the area)

* * *

### Additional tips:

  * The key to look at is continuously trying to be updating / reinventing yourself, then your practice will thrive, regardless of where it is
  * If you are a specialist, you’ll want to be around primary care so you can get more referrals, especially non-corporate primary care
  * Corporate primary care may have preferred referral partners
  * Choose a location based on accessibility and population growth. Follow construction, talk to locals, talk to realtors to determine where people are moving. This will help offset issues of competition, etc.
  * Look for locations near egress points
  * Near public transportation hubs and / or near highway exits
  * Determine what type of building you want to set up your practice in

#### Medical office buildings

Pros → often nice areas in the community, have some physicians in the building, good parking, often in areas near highways Cons → can be hard to find these buildings, challenging negotiations

#### Hospital office building

Pros → near a hospital if you are that type of specialty Cons → you’re a big part of the beast, around lots of hospitalized patients, parking can be challenging

#### Strip malls

Pros → cheap, lots of foot traffic Cons → may be neighbors with odd types of buildings (pawn shop, etc.), you may have low visibility

#### Corporate centers

Pros → very nice buildings, well maintained, clean Cons → Expensive, parking can be challenging, you may have low visibility Build out your website - your cheapest, most expandable, and arguably most important real estate Build your site early, keep it up to date, and add in fresh content This is the first impression your practice will have with your patients
